---
eip: 1048
title: ERC20 Intellectual Property Licensing Extension
author: Gregory Rigano, Esq. (@RiganoESQ), Ikuteer (@ikuteer)
discussions-to: <INSERT ETHEREUM MAGICIANS URL HERE>
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2018-08-26
requires: 1046, 1047, 20
---

## Simple Summary
An standard for issuing, using and trading intellectual property R&D tokens for public benefit - ERC20 extension

(NOT A SECURITY TOKEN)

## Abstract

Builds on the ERC20, 721, 1047 standards to provide fungible tokens representing intellectual property ("IP") rights and ownership by embedding a legal agreement, specifically IP license agreement in ERC721 tokenURI.  This standard will simplify issuance and trade of fungible IP rights (which have historically been only non-fungible).  


## Motivation
Radically scale human advance in scientific R&D.  Moving the issuance and trade of fungible IP rights on a public ledger provides a standard way of dealing in intellectual property ownership and rights on-chain, historically handled by analogue intellectual property offices, administrators, notaries, etc.  The Ethereum blockchain provides provenance and fungibility across jurisdictions.

The initial use case for the ERC721 standard was to support the creation of crypto-collectibles and gaming assets, initially for the "Crypto Kitties" collectibles game. The success of Crypto Kitties catalyzed significant application development to support the display of ERC721 assets using the tokenURI metadata parameter.

This proposal will extend the ERC20 standard to optionally include a nearly identical tokenURI parameter supporting the same JSON metadata schema as the ERC721 standard.

This standard includes a reference to a metadata standard named "ERC721 Metadata JSON Schema". This schema is actually equally relevant to ERC20 tokens and therefore should be its own standard, separate from the ERC721 standard.

Metadata is critical for both ERC721 and ERC20 tokens representing things like crypto-collectibles, gaming assets, etc. Not all crypto-collectibles and gaming assets will be non-fungible. It is critical for fungible ERC20 tokens to have a metadata standard similar to that of ERC721 tokens. Standardization of metadata between ERC20 and ERC721 will simplify development of dApps and infrastructure that must support both fungible and non-fungible assets.

It is more logical and easier to maintain one Token Metadata JSON Schema rather than multiple schemas contained in their own EIPs.

This should result in no code changes to the ERC721 standard or ERC20 standard and will serve only to simplify the process of maintaining a standard JSON Schema for token metadata.

The EULA is a file on IPFS with a certain hash that can be viewed through a URI.  Leveraging ‘tokenURI’ from ERC721 which created metadata identifiers for ERC20 and EIP 1047 which refers to IPFS hash metadata from a ERC721 URI, we provide specific format of metadata for this use case (issuing and trading IP tokens).  The metadata includes various identifiers includes among other things the license URL, providing distinct IP token classes and types for different R&D initiatives (“Token[x]”).  Any party that engages a digital transaction enforced on the Ethereum blockchain to obtain a Token[x] has consented to the terms of the EULA and may now access and communicate through the Portal (“Token user”).   

The standard extends the secure ERC20 token standard with legal agreement in the JSON metadata for which IP tokens can be interrogated by  for its name and for details about the assets which your tokens represent.

Like traditional ERC20 tokens with a fungible `supply`, for the first time, IP rights can become fully fungible thereby allowing for direct monetization and trade of R&D (as opposed to indirect: R&D-->patent-->company-->equity in company). 1048 IP tokens will be able to represent ownership rights to a R&D initiatives valuable scientific data (e.g. clinical trials, NASA-like experiments, etc). All transactions will be public on the Ethereum blockchain incentivizing one record of scientific truth. 

Such an architecture facilitates collaboration between scientists and interested parties for desired innovations while providing trustless ownership and trade on a global basis.  

Applications are contemplated below.

This standard is inspired by the ERC-20 and ERC-721 token standards and builds on significant international experience in intellectual property R&D. EIP-20 and EIP-721 are insufficient because they lack legal soundness which limits ultimate market penetration.  


## Specification <-- @Bruno, why have anything more than the license agreement here?
This "Token Metadata JSON Schema" mimics the structure of the ERC721 assets using the tokenURI metadata parameter ERC721 standard with the metadata providing a URI to a human readable legal license agreement for specific IP rights on IPFS. 

Luckily for us, OpenZeppelin provides contracts that will implement 1 and 3 for us: DetailedERC20 and MintableToken. 2 and 4 we'll have to cover on our own, but the process barely differs from what it would look like without ZeppelinOS.

The EIP-1046 extension is straightforward: we'll inherit from OpenZeppelin's DetailedERC20 and add the required variable to our contract. The only difference is, once again, that we need to define an initialize method instead of a constructor, and call our base contracts' initialize methods in it.

mport 'openzeppelin-zos/contracts/token/ERC20/DetailedERC20.sol';

contract ExtendedERC20 is DetailedERC20 {
  string public tokenURI;

  function initialize(address _sender, string _name, string _symbol, uint8 _decimals, string _tokenURI) isInitializer('ExtendedERC20', '0') public {
    DetailedERC20.initialize(_sender, _name, _symbol, _decimals);
    tokenURI = _tokenURI;
  }
}

import 'openzeppelin-zos/contracts/token/ERC20/DetailedERC20.sol';

contract ExtendedERC20 is DetailedERC20 {
  string public tokenURI;

  function initialize(address _sender, string _name, string _symbol, uint8 _decimals, string _tokenURI) isInitializer('ExtendedERC20', '0') public {
    DetailedERC20.initialize(_sender, _name, _symbol, _decimals);
    tokenURI = _tokenURI;
  }
}

tokenURI = _tokenURI , b

_setTokenURI
function _setTokenURI(uint256 _tokenId, string _uri) internal
Internal function to set the token URI for a given token Reverts if the token ID does not exist.

Parameters:
_tokenId - uint256 ID of the token to set its URI
_uri - string URI to assign

https://openzeppelin.org/api/docs/token_ERC721_ERC721Token.html#_setTokenURI

the tokenURI refers to IPFS hash metadata as stated above.  We provide a specific format of metadata for this use case (fungible IP issuance and trade) which includes among other things the license URI.

This is the "ERC 1048" Metadata JSON Schema

```

{
    "title": "Asset Metadata",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "name": {
            "type": "string",
            "description": "Identifies the copyright license to which this token represents",
        },
        "IP description": {
            "type": "string",
            "description": "Describes the copyright asset to which this token represents",
        },
        "License Type": {
            "type": "string",
            "description": "Describes the license for which the token represents: a limited, exclusive, transferable, personal license during the term of this Agreement to access, use, contribute to, develop and own the value of the digital commons portal",
        },
         "License_URL": {
            "type": "string",
            "description": "Human readable license in full: https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmUXkwcsAd58pPNonAPNSH16rDVqW6DrHgZi4ELijppJWR",
        },
         "Copyright": {
            "type": "string",
            "description": "All rights reserved."
        },
         "Road Map": {
            "type": "string",
            "description": "Describes specification, development milestones, budget for each milestone, timelines and responsibilities",
        },
         "Territory": {
            "type": "string",
            "description": "Identifies the jurisdiction for which the copyright license applies to, e.g. Worldwide",
        },
         "Soft Cap": {
            "type": "string",
            "description": "Identifies the minimum USD or ETH required to achieve all Road Map milestones",
        },
         "Public Benefit": {
            "type": "string",
            "description": "True",
        }
    }
}

```

The urI to the license is one way of accessing url thru the browser, if u run an ipfs node u can just see it thru the console, but no one does it that way they do it thru the browser

The metadata license agreement should be part of the IP token issuance documentation, thereby enabling the initial set of buyers from the issuer to click a check box agreeing to the license terms.  On the secondary market, the license agreement is embedded in every IP tokens metadata which states that a party agrees to the metadata license agreement by using the IP token (the license as currently drafted requires the R&D lead to post all R&D information in a digital commons only accessible to token holders in which token holders gain access to researchers, research data/paper, ability to provide commentary, challenge funding deployments and have potential IP rights in access, use, publishing, development, distribution and commercialization, amongst others. etc.) or in which you obtain at least one token in which such a transaction can be proven on the ethereum blockchain. @Bruno . This is similar to markets trading contracts for commodities.

There is no limitation on transfer other than requiring the sender to have a sufficient balance.

This is similar to the OpenZeppelin Craftable Tokens, https://docs.zeppelinos.org/docs/1.0.0/crafty.html which also builds on EIP-1046 - but we provide a specific format of metadata for this use case which includes among other things the license URL as identifiers for fungible IP assets.

with legal support.

The additional storage and validations will be implemented in the CraftableToken contract itself, which will feature multiple inheritance. Again, all that needs to be done is to call the initialize method of all base contracts.

import 'openzeppelin-zos/contracts/token/ERC20/MintableToken.sol';
import './ExtendedERC20.sol';

contract CraftableToken is MintableToken, ExtendedERC20 {
  function initialize(address _owner, string _name, string _symbol, string _tokenURI, ERC20[] _ingredients, uint256[] _ingredientAmounts) isInitializer('CraftableToken', '0') public {
    MintableToken.initialize(_owner);
    ExtendedERC20.initialize(_name, _symbol, 0, _tokenURI);

    // Do custom validation on _ingredients and _ingredientAmounts, and store them
    ...
    }
  }
  ...
}

## Rationale

Like traditional ERC20 tokens with a fungible supply, for the first time, IP rights can become fully fungible thereby allowing for direct monetization and trade of R&D .

One JSON schema standard will allow for simpler maintenance of this critical schema.

There are many proposed uses of Ethereum smart contracts that depend on tracking distinguishable property. Examples of existing or planned non-fungible tokens are LAND in Decentraland, Crypto Kitties, etc. yet these distinguishable properties, like traditional IP are non-fungible.  This proposal gives IP ownership rights the ability to be fungible, secure, legally sound and atomically tracked through building on the ERC20, 721 and 1046 standards.  By embedding an enforceable legal agreement in an ERC20 metadata in which transacting in an IP token is consent to the agreement, IP licensing can occur between two parties using the Ethereum blockchain for enforcement as opposed to lawyers, admins and courts.


Developers, scientists and all interested parties will be able to confidently understand how to issue and trade in IP tokens on a global basis with minimal friction.  This is expected to (i) increase human bandwidth for innovation and (ii) provide a new asset class - fungible IP.


Fungible Token Identifiers

Every 1048 is identified by a unique contract address (after it is deployed).  This identifying contract address SHALL NOT change for the life of the contract. The contract address will then be a globally unique and fully-qualified fungible identifier for a specific copyright asset on an Ethereum chain. 

Transfer Mechanism
ERC-20


## Backwards Compatibility
This EIP is fully backwards compatible as its implementation simply extends the functionality of ERC20 tokens and is optional.

## Test Cases
IP based in scientific information of value e.g. rocket science engineering, clinical trials, etc.

## Implementation
[Token](https://alpha.iku.network/license/view) - MetaMask Ropsten

[Legal Memorandum](https://www.dropbox.com/s/rua1xxdat2wa2xi/EIP%201048%20Legal%20Memo_Master.pdf?dl=0)



## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
